# 3.2 Lab 2: Threads and Synchronization 

In this assignment, you will complete the Nachos thread system by adding support for locks (mutexes), condition variables, and build some synchronized data structures for use in the later labs. There is an extra-credit part to this lab, which has you modify the default **nachos** scheduling behavior to implement a non-preemptive priority-based scheduler. 

> 总结：实验目的为——完善线程系统（加锁，条件变量，建立一些synchronized的数据结构。加分项——修改nachos调度行为以实现一个”非抢占式“ ”有优先级的“ 调度器？

As with Lab 1, this lab also requires you to introduce one or more files of your own. As before, you will need to add these files to proper macro definitions in the `makefile`, and update the `makefile` dependencies. Note that the latter half of this assignment requires you to use the synchronization facilities you will be implementing in the first part. So, please try and make sure that your implementation of locks and condition variables is thoroughly debugged before you move on to the rest of the assignment. 

> 总结：要自己添加一些文件，并且修改`makefile`，实验后半部分要用前半部分写的synchronize功能，所以前半部分写的时候要好好debug完再接下去做。

Your new classes will be based on header files provided in the course directory (subdirectory aux) and/or on the course web site. These header files contain initial definitions of the classes, with the signatures of some methods. You should copy these header files into your source pool and extend them. Feel free to add your own methods, definitions, and classes as needed. However, do not modify the interfaces, which are already defined. 

> 总结：实验后半部分要用他提供的头文件，然后实现里面的内容（和实验一`dllist`一样），自由添加函数，但不能修改头文件已经声明的函数。

### 3.2.1 Implementing Mutexes and Condition Variables (60 points) 

The public interface to mutexes and condition variables is defined in `synch.h` , which includes important comments on the semantics of the primitives. The condition variable interface is clunky in some respects, but please just accept it as defined by `synch.h` . Your first mission is to define private data for these classes in `synch.h` and implement the interfaces in `synch.cc` . Look at `SynchList` to see how the synchronization primitives for mutexes and condition variables are used. You are to write two different implementations of these synchronization primitives in two different versions of the `synch.h` and `synch.cc` files. You should be able to switch from one version to the other by (at worst) moving these files around and recompiling Nachos. Each implementation is worth 30 points in this lab. 

> 总结：第一个任务——要实现`synch.h`里面的”锁机制“和”条件变量“的接口，而且还要用两种方式实现，也就是要写两种版本的`synch.h`和`synch.cc`（步骤见下文），然后在两种版本之间切换就是把文件移来移去然后重新编译nachos。

Here are the specific steps and requirements in more detail: 

1. Implement your locks and condition variables using the sleep/wakeup primitives (the `Thread::Sleep` and `Scheduler::ReadyToRun` primitives). **It will be necessary to disable interrupts temporarily at strategic points**, to eliminate the possibility of an ill-timed interrupt or involuntary context switch. In particular, `Thread::Sleep` **requires you to disable interrupts before you call it.** However, you may lose points for holding interrupts disabled when it is not necessary to do so. Disabling interrupts is a blunt instrument and should be avoided unless necessary. 

   > 总结：用`Thread::Sleep`和`Scheduler::ReadyToRun`实现加锁和条件变量，好像用`Thread::Sleep`之前要关闭中断？什么的，没看太懂，还说最好不要一直关中断。
   >
   > 来自实验任务书：
   >
   > > 这部分实现主要参考`Semaphore`中`Semaphore::P()`和`Semaphore::V()`的实现（在`synch.cc`和`synch.h`中）。阅读`../code/threads/list.h`，`../code/threads/list.cc`，`../code/machine/interrupt.h`和`../code/machine/interrupt.cc`等文件也有帮助。
   > >
   > > 在必要的时候应关中断，关中断的方法可以参考`Semaphore::P()`。**请注意考虑究竟什么时候才真正需要关中断**！
   > >
   > > 为了提交，这部分实验完成后，将`synch.cc`和`synch.h`分别保存为`synch-sleep.cc`和`synch-sleep.h`

2. Implement your locks and condition variables using semaphores as the only synchronization primitive. **This time it is not necessary (or permitted) to disable interrupts in your code**: the semaphore primitives disable interrupts as necessary to implement the semaphore abstraction, which you now have at your disposal as a sufficient "toehold" for synchronization. **Warning** : this part of the assignment seems easy but it is actually the most subtle and difficult. In particular, your solution for condition variables should guarantee that a `Signal` cannot affect a subsequent `Wait`. 

   > 总结：使用Semaphore实现加锁和条件变量，”不需要自行考虑关中断和阻塞队列维护等问题“
   >
   > 来自实验任务书：
   >
   > > 在用Semaphore实现条件变量时并不那么直接！这里，请特别注意`Semaphore`与条件变量的区别：如果在调用`Semaphore::P()`前调用`Semaphore::V()`，则V操作的效果将积累下来；而如果在调用`Condition::Wait()`前调用`Condition::Signal()`，则Signal操作的效果将不积累。
   > >
   > > 为了提交，这部分实验完成后，将`synch.cc`和`synch.h`分别保存为`synch-sem.cc`和`synch-sem.h`

3. Modify your `DLList` class from Lab 1 so that it uses synchronization primitives to ensure that the list is being updated consistently despite its use by multiple threads. You may want to take a look at the `SynchList` class (in `threads/synchlist.h` and `threads/synchlist.cc` ) to see how you might do this. To demonstrate that your code works, as in Lab 1, create a driver file analogous to the file `threadtest.cc` that makes calls on the synchronized version of the `DLList` class. Make the changes to `threads/main.cc` so that an execution of the nachos command causes the function in the new driver file to be executed instead of the function `ThreadTest` in the file `threadtest.cc` . Use the synchronized version of `DLList` to test both versions of your locks and condition variables.

   > 总结：修改实验1的双向链表，使它被多个线程更新时是互斥的。
   >
   > 来自实验任务书：
   >
   > > 在实验一里你曾经在nachos系统中运行自己编写的链表程序演示一些并发错误，其原因是测试程序未考虑互斥。现在请根据所实现的锁和条件变量机制重写测试文件threadtest.cc，并确保修改后的多线程并发程序是正确互斥的。
   > >
   > > 可以参考`nachos-3.4/code/threads/synchlist.cc`和`nachos-3.4/code/threads/synchlist.h`
   > >
   > > 再次注意：**条件变量应和锁配合使用。在使用过程中应注意，不能出现一个条件变量与两个不同的锁对应的情况！**

### 3.2.2 Implementing a Multithreaded Table (20 points) 

   Implement a thread-safe `Table` class, which stores a collection of untyped object pointers indexed by integers in the range `[0..size-1]`. You may use Table in later labs to implement internal operating system tables of processes, threads, memory page frames, open files, etc. Table has the following methods, defined in the header file `Table.h`, which is provided in the course directory (subdirectory `aux`): 

`Table(int size)` *-- Create a table to hold at most size entries.* 

`int Alloc (void* object)` *-- Allocate a table slot for object, returning index of the allocated entry. Return an error (-1) if no free table slots are available.*

`void* Get (int index)` *-- Retrieve the object from table slot at index, or NULL if not allocated.* 

`void Release (int index)` *-- Free the table slot at index.* 

> 总结：实现线程安全的表结构。
>
> 来自实验任务书：
>
> > `Table.h`中`class Table`的构造函数声明有问题，应该修改。此外，应该在其中补充析构函数的声明，并在`Table.cc`中实现。
> >
> > 为实现线程安全，需要用到锁机制。

### 3.2.3 Implementing a Bounded Buffer (20 points) 

This is a classical synchronization problem called bounded producer/consumer. Implement a thread-safe `BoundedBuffer` class, based on the definitions in `*/aux/BoundedBuffer.h` . 

`BoundedBuffer(int maxsize)` *-- Create a bounded buffer to hold at most `maxsize` bytes.* 

`void Read (void* data, int size)` -- *Read size bytes from the buffer, blocking until enough bytes are available to completely satisfy the request. Copy the bytes into memory starting at address data* 

`void Write (void* data, int size)` *-- Write size bytes into the buffer, blocking until enough space is available to completely satisfy the request. Copy the bytes from memory starting at address data .* 

`BoundedBuffer` will be used in Lab 5 to implement pipes, an inter-process communication (IPC) mechanism fundamental to Unix systems. The basic idea is that the pipe or `BoundedBuffer` passes data from a producer thread (which calls `Write` ) to a consumer thread (which calls `Read`). The consumer receives the bytes placed in the buffer with `Write` , in the same order as those bytes were written by the producer. If the producer generates data too fast (i.e. the buffer overflows with more than `maxsize` bytes) then `Write` puts the producer to sleep until the consumer can catch up and read some data from the buffer, freeing up space. If the consumer reads data too fast (i.e., the buffer empties), then `Read` puts the consumer to sleep until the producer can catch up and generate some more bytes. 

Note that there is no restriction on which threads call `Read` and which call `Write` . Your implementation should not assume that only only two threads use it, or that the calling threads play fixed roles as producer and consumer. If a given `BoundedBuffer` is used by multiple threads, then you should take care to preserve the atomicity of `Read` and `Write` requests. That is, data written by a given `Write` should never be delivered to a reader interleaved with data from other `Write` operations. This invariant should hold even if writers and/or readers are forced to block because the buffer fills up or drains. 

> 总结：实现一个大小受限的缓冲区。
>
> 来自实验任务书：
>
> > 请在`BoundedBuffer.h`中`class BoundedBuffer`的声明中补充析构函数的声明，并在`BoundedBuffer.cc`中实现之。
> >
> > 这个问题实际上是“生产者－消费者”问题。实现时候可以用Semaphore机制，也可以使用锁机制配合条件变量。如果使用Semaphore机制，则需要三个信号量；如果用锁机制配合条件变量，则需要一个锁和两个条件变量。
> >
> > 如果对条件变量与锁配合使用不熟悉，请阅读`nachos-3.4/code/threads/synchlist.cc`。

### 3.2.4 (EXTRA CREDIT) Implementing a Priority Scheduler (20 points) 

Trace through the code in `threads/thread.cc`, `threads/scheduler.h` and `threads/scheduler.cc` to understand how the default nachos scheduler chooses the next thread to run (either when a thread explicitly yields the CPU, or when a timeslice completes). To implement a non-preemptive priority-based scheduler, modify the thread scheduler to always return the highest priority thread. You might want to copy `scheduler.h` and `scheduler.cc` into files that have different names and modify these copies instead of the original ones. You will also need to create a new constructor for Thread to take another parameter – the priority level of the thread. Please leave the old constructor as is, since you will need it for backward compatibility. You may assume that there are a small, fixed number of priority levels – for this assignment you will only need two. 

Test your scheduler implementation by using it to run your bounded buffer implementation. Can changing the relative priorities of the producer and consumer threads have any effect on the output? For instance, what happens with two producers and one consumer, when one of the producers is higher priority than the other? What if the two producers are at the same priority, but the consumer is at high priority? To get the desired behaviors, make sure that you have calls to `Thread::Yield` in your producer and consumer code (just for this part of the lab). 

> 总结：我们时间不够了别做了。

### 3.2.5 Some Notes for Lab 2 

> 下面的我还没看

Your implementations of locks and condition variables should use `ASSERT` checks as described in Section 2.2 (See Tracing and Debugging Nachos Programs) to enforce any usage constraints necessary for correct behavior. For example, every call to `Signal` and `Wait` passes an associated mutex; what could go wrong if a given condition variable is used with more than one mutex? What will happen if a lock holder attempts to acquire a held lock a second time? What if a thread tries to release a lock that it does not hold? These `ASSERT` checks are worth points on this assignment, and they will save you headaches in later assignments. 

You will also need to consider other usage issues. For example, what should your implementation do if the caller tries to delete a mutex or condition variable object while there are threads blocked on it? 

You should be able to explain why your implementation is correct (e.g., what will happen if we put a yield between lines X and Y), and to comment on its behavior (fairness, starvation, etc.) under various usage scenarios. 

**Warning**: The Nachos condition variable interface is ugly in that it passes the associated mutex on every call to `Wait` or `Signal`, rather than just binding the mutex once in the condition variable constructor. This means you must add code to remember the mutex on the first call to `Wait` or `Signal` , so that you can verify correct usage in subsequent calls. But make no mistake: each condition variable is used with exactly one mutex, as stated in `synch.h` . Be sure you understand why this is so important. 

**Warning**: The definition of semaphores does not guarantee that a thread awakened in **V** will get a chance to run before another thread calls **P** . In particular, the Nachos implementation of semaphores does not guarantee this behavior. That is, **V** increments the count and wakes up a blocked thread if the count transitioned from zero to one, but it is the responsibility of the awakened thread to decrement the count again after it wakes up in **P** . If another thread calls **P** first, then it may consume the count that was "meant for" the awakened thread, which will cause the awakened thread to go back to sleep and wait for another **V** . 

**Note**: for debugging, you may use the **-s** debug flag. However, there are no current **DEBUG** statements with the **s** debug flag, so you will need to add some to your code. See Section 2.2 (See Tracing and Debugging Nachos Programs). 